Good afternoon and welcome to the
Social Services Committee, select Committee.
Uh, thank you very much for, um, adjusting your schedules,
um, to be available 'cause we, um, had
to move them around a little bit today.
But, uh, look, thank you.
It's great to have you here with us.
Um, number, this committee, um, visited, uh,
department recently, and we had a very interesting visit
through some of the, um, uh, Lisa known parts that I think,
and they got to see how some of the operations it worked.
But look, um, open up to you.
Um, if you make a, make some, uh, opening comments,
and then if you wanted to go from there,
um, questions from me, this would be great. Thank you.
Good afternoon. Um, my name's Chris Brook
and I've got our co-chief, co-chief executives here, um,
and Courtney and, and Apao.
I'm the, uh, newly appointed chair of Tepa.
So I apologize for not being there on your recent visit,
but I don't, I don't think I was as I was in the, uh,
I was in the job, um, at that point.
I do, I do have some opening, um, remarks that I'd just like
to, um, to, to go through with you.
And a, as I said, I thank you for your recent, um, visit
and as to Courtney and Oura.
Um, and you did give a significant amount of time,
which was wonderful,
and you were able to see the museum from top to bottom
and, um, I'm sure you realize it's large, it's complex,
and there's an awful lot going on in there that most people,
um, in New Zealand really don't appreciate.
Um, the wonderful work
and research that goes on in inside to Puffa and,
and its other, uh, other facilities.
Um, today is an opportunity to reflect on
to Papa's performance and, um, take stock of the progress
and also talk about the pressures, uh, that we face
and the pressures are very real and, and, and, and,
and shape our path going forward, whichever way
that that may fall.
Um, in terms of reviewing 2023, it's clear
that despite significant challenges, Tepa has continued
to deliver, um, with resilience on its commitments,
um, to New Zealanders.
Uh, that's in the face of economic recession, rising costs
and a slow tourism recovery.
Uh, the museum has maintained high performance
and, and impact.
Um, a recent highlight was, and,
and some of you may well have attended this,
the Vivian Westwood
and Jewelry exhibition, which received over 50,000 visits,
um, approximately half of which were from
outside Wellington.
And, and that exceeded targets.
We have recently reopened the, uh, toy art galleries, um,
with a refreshed tang of iconic New Zealand artworks
by artists including Ralph Ery sh a Peter Davies.
Um, and if you haven't seen it already,
I'd really encourage you
because these works are truly spectacular
and you really appreciate the size and scale of Tepa.
And I, I, I think, again, that is something that you need
to appreciate is that, that the, the ability of for Tepa
to show these works of, of, of, of scale.
I'm also the chair of the advisory board
of the Auckland Art Gallery, so I appreciate
and I see it, um, when I, you can't really compare the two.
They're different, they're different entities.
But the, the scale of what Tepa can do
and what it can do to show, uh,
New Zealand is a whole variety of things is is,
is very impressive, um, in terms
of our teams continue to drive these experiences,
but we are navigating complex realities.
Um, like all organizations,
and I have the benefit
of sitting across a number of organizations.
Cost pressures are real
and everyone talks to you about cost pressures.
Um, but for us, the maintenance of aging infrastructure
and the funding limitations are a real challenge
and the major challenge facing the
organization going forward.
We face a structural funding gap with rising costs
and static crown funding,
and this has been exacerbated by the historical
underfunding of depreciation.
Again, not a story that, that you are unfamiliar with, um,
but something that we do have to articulate to you.
Um, despite constructive discussions with the Ministry
for Culture and Heritage, that's 2019,
we still require a long, long-term solution.
And without sustained investment, the museum may be forced
to shift its focus towards maintenance
and compliance at the expense of what we should be doing.
And that is telling our stories, providing research,
providing visitor engagement
and providing community engagement.
Um, for, for, for all New Zealanders, um,
it's an underappreciated fact
that depart generates nearly half of its operating budget
through its own commercial and fundraising activities.
And a static crown funding environment to public continues
to pursue revenue, generating opportunities
to support the delivery of services
and manage cost increases,
including fundamentals like insurance, energy and cleaning.
And, and insurance is, as you're probably all aware,
is just a a a a significant cost.
And again, with some of my other hats on, it is something
that I personally believe the Crown needs
to look at in terms of the,
the Crown entities paying out considerable, um, amounts
of money in premiums every year.
Um, for, for, for various entities,
te Papapa has traditional traditionally offered retail venue
hire and hospitality services
that support revenue generation
through the visitor experience in September, 2024,
to help manage cost pressures, we introduced
the international visitor charge that has been successful.
Um, in recent years,
we have lifted our focus on corporate sponsorship
research funding and growing private philanthropy
through the tip to Pub Foundation.
However, these streams are sensitive
to wider economic factors and, and,
and not sufficient on their own.
In fact, even help drive it always up there trying
to drum up business for us in London on the,
on the private philanthropy side.
So we are looking across all markets to try and drive this
and tug on the heartstrings of,
of New Zealanders in their regard.
Um, in terms of infrastructure maintenance, as I said,
it pre presents a significant and ever-growing challenge.
Our Cable Street building once state of the art
increasingly requires substantial maintenance as it ages.
For example, a recent project
to replace the day one fire sprinkler system in the toy art
galleries took nine months and cost $4.4 million.
I'm pleased to report that was completed on time
and under budget, um, which, which is
relatively rare these days,
but, um, nevertheless we achieved it.
But $4.4 million out of, out of total grant money is a,
is a, is a big percentage of the, um, of,
of the overall budget.
You've visited the roof recently.
Um, repairs there have cost $10.7 million in the past 10
years with a further $4.8 million identified
as required to be spent over the next four years.
I mean, we have no choice. We have to maintain
a weather tight to Papa,
but this is the challenges that you face within,
within the, within the budget.
At, at present, we hold the country's largest collection
from art and history to TGA Maori Pacific Cultures
and Natural Heritage Collections.
Our collections are, uh, a living resource.
They generate exhibitions, publications, community programs,
scientific research, international collaboration,
and of course, and most importantly, learning.
Um, they support cultural exchange as well.
Creative enterprise reflecting New Zealand's national
identity at home and on the world stage.
We are incredibly proud, for example, um,
that the work from the Tappa collection, um, at,
at the recent Ven Biennale by Majo Collective.
And, and I hope if you haven't seen the, the images of
that work, it was truly spectacular.
I actually was there at the opening of the Venice Biennale
that year, and it was just breathtaking
and so proud to be a New Zealander with that work.
But that came from the Tappa collection and, um,
and it won the Golden Line,
which is the most prestigious art award in the world,
and they won that in 2024,
the only New Zealanders to ever win it.
Um, and, and, and we incredibly proud
and all of New Zealand should be incredibly proud.
And that was at the opening, the beginning of the Asle,
which is the major in Venice.
They have two areas, pavilions for the nations.
We, we can't afford one of those.
Um, the Qatari paid 150 million for their one, um, recently
to the Italian government.
We obviously aren't in that, um, budget,
and we were in the Asle,
but we were at the opening of the Asle.
It was incredible. And that's New Zealand front
and center on this, on, on the stage.
And that is incredibly important for us as a nation
for our identity and for most importantly, for,
for, for soft power.
This is an invitation from the Italian government.
It's incredibly important.
If you are not there, it's New Zealand who,
even the s shes present, you know, as a small nation,
but they are presenting for a reason, um,
to present their story.
So Maori culture, tikanga tga, are central to,
to papa's service and impact, uh, of what we do.
An example of this is the Kanga r repatriation program,
which, um, our part can speak extensively about,
but that returns Maori
and Maori ancestral remains from overseas
museums to New Zealand.
An incredibly important job that we undertake
and important for the nation and the communities, um,
and that we return these ancestral remains in tga.
Clearly, it reconciles the wrongs in our history,
improves the wellbeing today,
and forges closer bonds with other countries
who share our commitment to return, such as Germany,
Australia, Australia,
the United Kingdom and the United States.
To papa his legislative mandate to support the museum
and gallery SEC sector nationally providing development
services, grants training to regional institutions along
with loans from our collections and touring exhibitions.
As I'm sure you're aware from your own constituencies,
museums and galleries throughout the country are facing
funding shortages, the impact of extreme weather events,
growing infrastructure costs
and difficulty attracting trained staff
as the National museum that receives crown funding
by appropriation, the sector expects to papa
to provide support as smaller regional museums
and galleries face their own funding
challenges and rising costs.
This amplifies the demands on tepa.
Finally, digital access
and online engagement are central to our future.
With more than three and a half million online visits
annually and 80% of those engaging with research
and collections, digital has become a powerful
and growing avenue for public access, for tourism recovery,
and for lifting New Zealand's cultural profile abroad.
At my first board meeting in June, we approved an AI policy
for the museum to look for productivity improvements
and expand collection access.
I have to say I am impressed by the forward looking attitude
and digital expertise of tepa,
and they are really leading the way on this.
Um, as I say, I, I have visibility into other organizations,
so, um, to papa can
and should lead the wider sector in this regard and,
and should continue to do so.
Uh, before I conclude though, I want to acknowledge
and thank the board members who have completed their terms
since the period under review.
Their contributions have been important in a,
in a challenging time,
but I want to conclude my remarks by saying
that cultural infrastructure is core infrastructure.
It supports tourism, jobs, research,
and most importantly, national identity.
Tepa is critical infrastructure in this regard.
Thank you again for the opportunity to talk with you today,
and I look forward to your questions.
Thank you very much, um, for that.
And, uh, I might take the Cheers program,
just ask the first question.
Um, look, I'll just, uh, a very good overview, I think of,
of what Papa does as as national museum, um,
both domestically and internationally.
But, um, what I'm interested in is a little bit teasing,
a little bit more its role as a national museum
and its connection with broader regional New Zealand.
I think many people tend to think of, we need to come
to Wellington to visit to Papapa,
but I know, um, Courtney, she, you
and poor earlier this year, uh, with the, uh,
official Robin White exhibition, um,
with the East South and the gallery.
And, uh, so it's, it is bringing to papa
to regional New Zealand.
And just you just touch on that a moment. Yeah,
Sure. Thank you. And
it was, it was a real pleasure
to see you, Dan and Gore.
And I think to Chris's point, like, um, Jim
and Marcella, who are the, the, um, heroes
who operate basically the cultural system in Gore, um,
and have done for years do incredible work
and have been partners with Tepa for a long time.
So we do, we are geographically based here in Wellington,
but have a duty to support the whole nation
and as Chris has pointed out,
to also help tell New Zealand stories to the world.
So loans from our collection.
So if I think about, um,
I was just looking at the minutes today,
they might be man alone.
So PGA going back to Iwi for, uh, specific purposes,
art exhibitions, history exhibitions, um,
we have a fortnightly meeting there
and there's probably about 10 to 12 applications at each
of those meetings being reviewed
and passed out from the collections.
We make touring exhibitions, we test the market first there,
the market being, um, wanting to very, very,
very affordably package up, uh, exhibitions that can go
to regional locations, museums, libraries,
community centers, um, and galleries.
Uh, they're all designed to be able to be packed into a van
so that we can drive it on the ferry, drive it
to your gallery, install it for you,
be there at the opening, and then
give it over to the community.
So what what we don't wanna do
is take over anyone's hometown,
but what we do want
to do is amplify other institution's abilities
to do what they're doing.
And as Chris said, uh, training
and support is also another, um, piece that we do.
I think it's also important that we, you know,
we are the, the national institution.
We are well resourced.
So with recent things like changes to the Privacy Act,
knowing that there was a lot
of nervousness in the wider sector about what
that would mean for collection access, um,
because we have the expertise in house, we can do that work
and then come advocate
to a select committee on behalf of the whole sector.
So thinking about what can we do that will, um,
fire service Levy would be another example of that,
where can we shoulder some of the heavy lifting in order
for the whole sector to benefit.
Yeah, I've, I've run a, a regional insti, uh,
institution myself,
and I do, um, uh, acknowledge it can be, um,
you notice who gets crown funding and who don't.
Um, and so I bring that awareness with me into the role
and think about what are our obligations, not just
through the mandate, but just in terms of the fairness
of access to arts culture
and heritage around the whole country.
And just in, in addition to that there,
the national service, we work across the sector there
working actively with iwi on things like digitization
of their Mariah photographs, how to care for, how to look
after cloaks weapons.
And I think dramatically with Cyclone Gabriel, you saw the,
we mobilized our staff there to help with assistance there.
And it was quite a unique one in, in terms of experience
with repatriation where, uh, in one Malay
or Mahu Malay, uh,
ancestral remains was scattered throughout the paddocks.
So in a collaboration with Otago University, the police
and papa, we managed to do that
with the latest technology available with infrared
and so forth, and find all those
ancestors, bring them together.
But that's a good way in terms of just helping the sector,
helping Maori in their heritage, uh, aspirations. Mm.
Well, thank you. Thank you both. Um, um, Helen,
Oh, thank you.
Um, first of all, lovely to see you all and, um,
and really interested in the stuff
that you are doing in the regions.
Um, and also it is beautiful seeing the photographs of the,
what was at the Biennale.
Mm-hmm. Um, but I guess my first concern is for Auckland,
because it's often I think, uh,
perception you've come across it that the money, uh,
that goes to Papa drains Auckland of that kind
of institution,
and Auckland is a very inequitable city in terms of
who gets access to art in it, um,
'cause of just where the building's placed.
Mm-hmm. Um, I, when we visited, we saw
this beautiful work and there was buckets of it in storage.
Has there been any discussion about setting up a twin,
um, of,
or using some of the space permanent, uh, kind of storage
and use, um, particularly in some parts of Auckland
that might not necessarily have that kind of access?
Well, we'd love a wa we'd love a waterfront site there,
Helen, if you could.
Waterfront would be in the same area, Chris,
but I'm thinking about South Oakland.
I'm also thinking about Mocha and the redevelopment there.
So in an area where maybe more kids got to see this work.
Yeah, this was a, um, an idea
that was explored in the late 2010s.
Um, and kind what about money?
Um, came, uh, came to an end, um, just
around the beginning of the COVID period.
Yeah. But we could definitely share the information
about the thinking that was done. Was
It sort Scoped out.
It was scoped out a little. Yeah,
I would love to see that. That's
really great.
It was, yeah, it was for, if,
if memory serves me correctly for, um, the part of the, um,
the Maori and the Pacific Collection
and it was gonna be called to Topa South
if it serves me correctly.
Yes. But I think COVID, uh, put, put that, put that.
Thank You. Can I ask just one other we wanted
to just because there's quite a few,
Not much time. See if we have time,
Maureen. Oh, thank you
Mr. Chair. Um, as part of the visit
that we made, we went to,
and, um, so Chris, you didn't mention that in your preamble,
so, um, what part does
that play in the income stream or meter
That out? So, yeah,
thank you for the question.
So Tarina, the convention center across the road, um, owned
and operated by Wellington City Council, uh, tpa, um, prior
to, uh, Tarina being opened was Wellington's biggest
conferencing venue.
I think that's something that, um, heaps of people come
to conferences at Tepa, but don't realize that.
Um, so that has been one of those ways
that Tepa has supported itself ever since it opened.
So when, uh, Taina was, um, developed next door,
it was seen as a logical extension.
So we provide sales, support, uh, catering, food
and beverage support there,
and work, uh, with Wellington City council's,
business events, Wellington, as part of the attraction
of events, um, and business into Wellington.
So it was existing work we were already doing, uh,
that we were able to extend the services there. Mm-hmm.
So how much more does that contribute back
to the income forward to Papa?
Oh, I haven't got the exact figures here on me.
Um, I'd have to look that number up for you specifically.
Yeah. But conferencing is one
of the major is probably the biggest, uh,
revenue generator, right.
For tepa. Yeah. Yep. Thank you.
Um, thank you for your work in the report.
Um, I'm really interested about the contribution
to global biodiversity research aspect
and wondering particularly about your, uh,
global biodiversity heritage facility
and whether that's basically a historic thing
or something that continues and what kind of resource
and staffing goes into that
and how does it contribute. Mm-hmm.
I might just get a, a bit of clarification there. Mm-hmm.
So the facility that you are referring to,
The global biodiversity heritage facility tourist?
Yeah. Um, that might be I think a reference to, um,
what's known as our lots of words here.
Museums have very specific language, so, um,
spirit collection, uh, area.
Oh, okay. Yeah. Yeah.
Is that And the Biodiversity Research center? Yeah.
So Tippa hold's, uh, the world's largest collection
of South Pacific fishes.
Nearly, uh, a million specimens stored
and dilute alcohol in a specialized facility, um, that
at our Tory Street facility that is no longer compliant.
Um, so we were funded to develop A BBC
and an INBC to create a new facility, um,
and funded to purchase land, um, in which we've secured
and trained them for the development of that facility.
Um, and the decision around, um, unlocking that funding
for the build is in front of cabinet at the moment.
Okay. Um, but we work across biodiversity, fauna and flora.
Um, we have experts, um,
I fondly call in the ologists ologists physiologists, um,
and Plantologist, but botany, entomology, uh, birds,
mammals and fish.
Um, and we were just visiting the
botany collections this morning.
So we are actively working with other researchers, um,
doc regional councils around New Zealand,
but also internationally around that biodiversity research.
We also do a reasonable amount of work, um, with helping
to identify invasive species, things like that.
So the collections become a reference point
for what's happening now and
how change is happening in our environment.
So it's not like a historical reference collection, it's
Continued. It's, it is
maintained up to today. Yeah. Okay.
Things are our,
our scientists are out there in Utes picking plants,
finding birds skeletons
and bringing them back into the collections. So
I I, I was just today in the bot botany department,
and I encourage you to come back and have a look at it
because it is quite incredible
that I was looking at plant material from 1769 Yeah.
Um, that we have in, in, in the archive,
in the archive there.
And this is, and,
and then when you go to the Tory Street facility
to see these, these specimens and,
and alcohol everywhere, um, there's,
there's, there's a lot of them.
And, um, and,
and if you think about that, that is incredible for research
for future generations,
but also what,
where will technology take us in the future from
medical research and all of this.
So it's critically important to preserve
and protect, uh, the, this, the, all
of these specimens and, and varietals.
And I just had the pleasure of going to the Museum
of Natural History, and I'll tell
you this story just quickly.
Um, but we are down to 16 varietals of wheat in the world.
Yeah. Wow. Okay.
And, um, and in Canada, we'll just pick on Canada.
Um, they're down to four evidently.
Um, the Museum of Natural History in London, in in Britain,
they have collected over the years, um, many
of the wheat specimens and wheat varietals,
and there used to be 4,000 in Canada.
Wow. So you think about the global food chain
and the risks that that presents,
and so that, it's a good example of
what these museums can actually bring to the table
for future generations.
And, and we, we don't value it highly enough. Mm-hmm.
And we need to be,
appreciate the importance of the researchers,
not just about pretty pictures on the wall, which is
what we all traditionally think about
museums and things like that.
It's about the stuff hidden in the bowels of,
of the museums, of which some
of you have had the privilege to go and see.
And it is a privilege when you see it. Yeah.
I can't, you can't describe it to people.
There's a privilege to go and see this Tonga
and this history and, and,
and the specimens are no different.
It's incredible. Thank you.
Can I just ask, uh, uh, in terms of your Maori, um,
strategy, it has, has it been affected at all, uh,
uh, by the government, uh, direction in terms of, you know,
getting rid of treaty clauses
and legislation, been a real push in that area?
Has that, has the government's direction in terms of
Kapa Maori affected the strategy, uh, in terms of Chris
A as we should all expect?
The answer is not.
No, I don't, I don't expect that.
Well, but I'm pleased,
but I didn't expect that, but I'm pleased to hear
That. But, but that's,
that's how I view it
as we should all expect.
Yes. It's a, it's the Museum of New Zealand. Absolutely.
Okay. So we need to remember that.
I I, no, We can, you can all
have your different views down here,
You know, But the problem with that, Chris,
is sometimes there are directions given to people like
Yourself. No, no directions.
David, um, fascinating.
Um, just interested in your challenges around infrastructure
and depreciation, insurance and so on,
and then also the different revenue streams
that you've started throughout,
you know, thoroughly endorse.
Um, have you got any comparator examples overseas
that you can reflect on to see how your performances
and what challenges maybe you have and
or opportunities maybe you have that others don't? Yeah,
I, I, I, I can just talk to numbers, uh, numbers briefly.
Roughly 43.6, 43.8 million from the crown,
call it 44 million from the crown, 3 million, 3 million, um,
in acquisition budget.
And then it's a total 85, 80 $5 million top line.
Um, so the rest is, is own source revenue.
So roughly 55, 45, um, split for, for, for Crown versus,
um, versus own source.
That is relatively, that is that, that would bat
above its weight in terms of the global sector.
I can't give you the exact numbers,
but um, I can tell you, you know, Auckland roughly 67, 33.
Yeah. Um, so I, um, so we,
we are pulling our weight in that regard.
We just can't pull the weight hard enough to keep up
with 30 years of, of, of, of, of building depreciation.
And, and, and therein lies the,
therein lies the challenge for us. Um,
Awesome. I,
I suspected that was the answer. Um, real challenge.
Uh, I was also involved in the development of the
art center in art gallery and,
and I remember some of the research right at the beginning,
and one that jumped out at me
and I've never forgotten was that, uh, museums
around the world actually had more visitation than all the
major sporting events put together the us which
sort of surprised me at the time.
Um, but my questions really
to you having been involved in the, uh, situation,
how, you know, is there any crown funding that goes
to Ed Vasa and the like, and if not, why not?
And second, how can you support them in their journey?
Because I know that the wounded Vasa has already attracted
cruise ships and so on and so forth,
but it's a hard yard man that talks so much,
so much to get off the ground.
Yeah, yeah. Trust me,
I can, I can probably go first.
Uh, the answer is as far as I'm aware, no.
So those are all regionally funded.
Um, and, and,
and that is the challenge for, for, for a whole lot
of galleries, ssa.
Um, but you know, I'll, I'll take this hat off
and put Auckland's hat on.
I mean, we do, we do, we do a lot of work as well up
and down, up, up and down the country
and the Auckland rate payers, um, fund that, um, we,
we big conservation efforts with, with other galleries,
big loan programs, storage as well.
And, and so it's a challenge across, across the sector,
and as we're all aware from your various constituencies rate
payers can't, you know, you, you, you,
you can't support that can't funding.
So, so there, there, there is a challenge there and,
and, um, of how we are going to fund this going forward.
And, you know, uh, you, you got,
you'll all have the debate down here,
but you know, when you go travel around the world,
you see it on your hotel bills, there's a museum levy,
there's a big tax levy.
Yeah. You know, we are gonna have to wake up to these kind
of things in, in, in, in my opinion as,
as a tax payer and a rate payer.
Uh,
We, we, we, we are at time.
I want to use the shares prerogative
to ask the last question as you,
As you can see, I can go on
And go over time a little bit.
I think we'd love to keep asking questions, so we might have
to allocate ourselves more time in the future finish.
But the, the very last point, um,
I I just wanna ask is this is the Museum of New Zealand.
New Zealand plays a very important, um,
role in the Pacific region in Antarctica, et cetera.
So I'm just wondering what,
can you tell us anything about the museum role in that, uh,
telling those stories and connecting to those communities?
Yeah, we, we've been actively helping our, our,
our Pacific museums and,
and regions with regards
to things like even not only collecting,
but helping them support their, uh,
cultural heritage initiatives through their museums.
We have just in the last year, you would've seen that
with the, uh, um, the raids
and the sessions that we've had.
And so it's, uh, we always have, actually in the last couple
of years we've had a very, uh, deep engagement
and probably more so in terms of the, uh, with Europe and,
and Germany who are undertaking their reconciliation
of the colonial period.
We've been involved in the Sensitive Provenances project,
which is really about, as they, the German government,
and this is, have they reconciled that that period, uh,
we've been helping them, assisting them to return
and repatriate
and reconnect, uh, Pacific TGA back to their people
and their, to their lands.
So that's a, that's a long process there.
And that's, uh, not a quick process,
but uh, I know that our staff are very, very keen.
So we actually work
with the Pacific on a whole host of different fronts.
Yeah. Maybe if I could just, um,
add a few things to that as well.
So, um, the Pacific South Pacific, uh, fishes collection
that I was talking about reaches down into our area
of the Antarctic as well.
And we're lucky to have some world leading experts, um,
on staff, uh, who are regularly on expeditions.
And part of that there, we do,
do collecting projects in the Pacific
and co collecting, uh, projects.
So at the moment we are partnering
with communities in the Cook Islands, um,
where our staff go provide training, um,
and support so
that skills are learned rather than just go take things,
bring them back to New Zealand, um, to build up those,
those links and that representation back here.
I'd say our Pacific Collections are probably the most
behind the scenes visited part of the museum.
The community engagement is incredible.
Um, a lot of diplomatic visitors as well, as well
as university visitors there too.
Um, and as said as well, providing advice
and support to, um, museums in the Pacific.
Sometimes some of our staff go
and work on site there as well.
Um, one of our ex uh,
board members has just become the director
of the Fiji Museum.
Um, so keeping those relationships really warm, I think,
I think we mentally extend, um, our responsibility in
that way of providing support over the Pacific
because we know, um, we,
we are part of the Pacific.
It's not over there and us here.
So we see that as if not written
down, uh, in black and white.
And our legislation may be being something
that is there in spirit.
Well, thank very much, uh,
we should have allowed ourselves more time.
That's fascinatingly. We've got a lot more we'd love
to talk about, but, uh, thank, thank you for what you do
and helping preserve and share the story.
Thank you.
We can always book in another visit anytime you need
a class trip to do something, or perhaps as,
As you can see, I like talking.
So
Hopefully next time I'm in Gore with our next exhibition.
We'll see you there again. Thank you very much.
I wonder, are you providing the DNA
for growing a new mower?
No, that's museum.
We've got our on the first one. Oh, excellent. Have
A good a.